{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red51\green0\blue204;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
{\info
{\title Project 1}
{\author Maribeth Gandy}
{\*\company Microsoft Corporation}}\vieww12540\viewh16140\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb100\sa100

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0  CS4590 \'96 Spring 2013 \'96 Project 1\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 This project is intended as an introduction to working with digital audio. It's divided into several parts, each of which deals with a different method of audio manipulation. You will turn in a zip file with all your resulting sound files and a supporting text document describing your work.
\i \
Note: if you do this project in the labs, be sure to bring some headphones. You fellow classmates will thank you.
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri0\sb100\sa100

\b\fs27 \cf0 Part 1 \'96 Audacity: Filters\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 The first part of this project involves working with Audacity (although you may use a different sound editing program if you wish, as long as it supports the same type of effects), a free sound editing program, ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://audacity.sourceforge.net/}}). \
Your job is to create process a .wav file with different effects. The exact parameters you choose for each effect are up to you, but, if you use the values specified in the instructions it should end up sounding like the given file \'93reference.wav.\'94 If you\'92re new to computer audio, I\'92d recommend adding each effect to the raw original.wav file 
\i first so you can hear their isolated effects
\i0 . Then, after experimenting with different effects and different parameters, make one \'93Processed.wav\'94 file that has all of your effects. Remember, we are dealing with sound so there is no wrong answer \'96 turn in what you think sounds the best/coolest/weirdest/etc.\
You will turn in your own \'93processed.wav\'94 file along with a text explanation of what parameters you chose for your clip and why they caused the audio to sound the way it does. To reiterate, your final processed.wav file does NOT have to sound exactly like the reference.wav file, just be sure to explain your reasoning for any effects/parameters in your write-up.\
Steps:\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\sb100\sa100
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \cf0 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 Download \'91Original.wav\'94 to work on and the reference file (\'93Reference.wav\'94). \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 Pass the original sound through a high pass filter (you can do this via the \'93equalization\'94 tool or the \'93high pass filter\'94 tool in Audacity). The reference.wav has a cutoff frequency of about 500 Hz with a 12dB rolloff.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 Change the speed of your output sound (use Effect  \'93Change speed\'94). Note how this changes the 
\b pitch
\b0  of the clip. The reference clip\'92s speed was increased by 20%.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 Now change the speed of your clip using Effect  \'93Change Tempo\'94 which will lengthen or shorten your clip 
\i without causing a change in pitch
\i0 . The reference clip\'92s tempo was decreased by 20%.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 Now add an echo. The example applied an echo with 0.25 seconds delay. (Effect  \'93Echo\'94)\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 Apply tremolo to the clip (Effect  \'93Tremolo\'94)\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 Export your project by clicking \'93File\'94  \'93Export.\'94\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb100\sa100

\b\fs27 \cf0 Part 2 \'96 Web Audio: Synthesizing A Square Wave\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 For this portion of the assignment, you will be utilizing the Web Audio API. Later in the semester, you will do something more complex with Web Audio. This simple example is designed to help you get your feet wet.\
To test Web Audio, you will need to use one of the web browsers outlined in this Web Audio Examples page (Chrome, Safari):\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://chromium.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/samples/audio/index.html}}\
The main function of your web page is to synthesize a square wave using at least five different sine waves. Essentially, when your sine waves are all played together, it should play back a square wave. There should also be buttons to stop and start the sound.\
You'll need to turn in your HTML file that plays back your sound. In your write-up document, explain what the fundamental frequency of your wave is and what formula you used to calculate the required harmonics, frequencies and amplitudes.\
Your lecture slides, class notes, and Google resources are your friend for this. (Hint: To create sine waves, first look into generating oscillators.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb100\sa100

\b\fs27 \cf0 Part 3 \'96 JavOICe: Sonification\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb100\sa100

\b0\fs24 \cf0 JavOICe is a Java applet that takes a two-dimensional grayscale image and translates into sound ("sonifies" it). It can be found at: 
\b\fs27 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://www.seeingwithsound.com/javapp.htm}}
\b0\fs24  (welcome back to web design, circa 1996)\
Set up the Java standalone version on your computer using the command line prompt from the following download:\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://www.seeingwithsound.com/javoice.zip}}\
Once you have it working, all you need to do is experiment with the application to make the coolest sound you can. The only technical requirement is that part of the sound is made up of a pseudo-periodic function (i.e. a fundamental with at least 3 harmonics). \
When you have created a sound you like, go to the \'93File\'94 menu and save both the soundscape (\'93Save soundscape as\'85\'94/ .WAV file) and the image (\'93Save image as\'85\'94 / .OIC file). Turn both of these in along with a short description of why your sound sounds like it does in your write-up.\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb100\sa100

\b\fs27 \cf0 Part 4 \'96 Stomper: Sound Synthesis\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Stomper is a synthesizer program that was originally designed for making electronic drum sounds, but can be used to create a wide variety of different sounds. It uses various oscillators and filters to generate the sounds. You can download Stomper for free at{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.lysator.liu.se/~zap/stomper/index2.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2  www.lysator.liu.se/~zap/stomper/index2.html}}. I would suggest you download the \'93zipped install\'94 rather than the exe installer (which doesn\'92t seem to run correctly on modern computers).\
If you are running OSX or Linux, we have found success running this program under WINE (Wine Is Not an Emulator). If you are running a 64-bit version of Windows, you may have issues opening the program, and may have to use one of the lab computers.\uc0\u8232 \u8232 First, look at one of the sample sounds that come with Stomper (File  \'93Open\'94) and write a brief description of what the different oscillators and/or filters do for your write-up.\u8232 \u8232 Next, generate three sounds of your own. Between the three sounds you must use frequency modulation at least once, amplitude modulation at least once and use at least 6 oscillators and at least 3 filters. You'll have a chance to show off the sound and why you thought it was cool after everyone's turned in the project.\u8232 \u8232 You'll need to turn in the description of the sample sound you picked (along with which sample it was), and also the stp file and a wav file export of your new sounds.\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sb100\sa100

\b\fs27 \cf0 Summary\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 You'll need to turn the following:\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\sb100\sa100
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \cf0 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 The final result of the steps in Part 1 (\'94LastName_Processed.wav\'94).\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 Your HTML file that plays back a synthesized square wave file from Part 2. \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 The wav file output of your JavOICe sound from Part 3.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 The oic image file of your JavOICe sound from Part 3.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 Your (3) sounds made in Stomper from Part 4 (stp and wav file exports).\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs20 \'a5	
\f0\fs24 A write-up (Rich-Text Format (.rtf) or Microsoft Word (.doc)) that includes:\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-360\ri0\sb100\sa100
\ls2\ilvl1
\f2\fs20 \cf0 o	
\f0\fs24 Your explanation of the effects/parameters of the steps in Part 1.\
\ls2\ilvl1
\f2\fs20 o	
\f0\fs24 The description of the frequency components (number of harmonics, their frequencies and amplitudes) of your Square Wave from Part 2.\
\ls2\ilvl1
\f2\fs20 o	
\f0\fs24 A short description of your JavOICe sound from Part 3.\
\ls2\ilvl1
\f2\fs20 o	
\f0\fs24 Your analysis of a sample sound from Part 4.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Please zip up all these files and name the zip file with your last name in the following format \'93yourlastname_hw1.zip\'94. \ul If you do not do this, we will not grade your assignment\ulnone .\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 It's a lot of different things to do, but each should not take too long. The main idea is to familiarize you with a variety of sound manipulation methods \'96 how to actually perform them as well as how to hear and discern their effects.\
}